Annex Manager Release Notes
---------------------------
---------------------------

Annex Manager is an SNMP-based management application that 
uses the X/Motif graphical environment.  Annex Manager is 
specifically designed to manage Xylogics Annex Remote Access 
Servers, and is not intended as a general purpose network manager.  
While Annex Manager can detect SNMP devices that are not Annexes, 
you cannot use it to configure any non-Annex network device.

Annex Manager R2.1 runs on a workstation platform running BSD 
Unix (Sun Sparc, HP, RS/6000, SCO).  The user interface is built to the 
X/Motif standard.

Annex Manager is designed to run stand-alone.  It contains all 
necessary SNMP protocol routines and X/Motif binary libraries.  The 
installation process copies the appropriate binary executable and all  
associated help and data files from the distribution media onto the 
workstation's disk store.

Annex Manager can be loosely coupled with several standard 
network management products such as SunNet Manager, 
HP/Openview, or Netview for AIX.  Annex Manager does not use 
the API interfaces provided by those products.



Why Use Annex Manager?
----------------------
----------------------


Annex Manager allows a system administrator to monitor and 
configure Annexes in a network.  Annex Manager is a host based, 
window oriented, configuration and management application.  The 
displays and user interface conform to the X/Motif standard.  Annex 
Manager works best with a color monitor directly attached to a 
workstation or a color X-windows terminal connected to a Unix host 
over the network.  In addition, it supports a grey-scale X-window 
terminal attached to a workstation.

Annex Manager's configuration tool is easy to learn and use.  It 
supports the functionality of the older host-based na configuration 
tool in an easier to use format.

Annex Manager is specifically designed to configure and manage 
Annex products.  Its features depend on the proprietary MIB defined 
for the Annex and on the various standard MIBs supported by the 
Annex.  As such, Annex Manager cannot manage other SNMP-
manageable nodes in the network.  Annex Manager is not intended 
to be a generic SNMP management tool.

Annex Manager provides features that have not been available with 
the na utility.  Users can:

-	Configure Annexes with Setup or Customize mode: 

-	Setup mode allows users to configure one or more 
	Annexes by setting the most commonly used 
	parameters.

-	Customize mode lets users set individual Annex 
	parameters and provides access to all main menu 
	commands.  

-	Save current configuration parameter settings in Script files 
	and restore the parameters from those files.

-	Edit script files with a common editor on the workstation.

-	Compare the configuration parameters of two ports on the 
	same Annex or on different Annexes.

-	Copy the current configuration parameter settings from one 
	port to another or one Annex to another.

-	Retrieve basic status and statistics information from the 
	Annex.

-	Define parameter groups to simplify configuration 
	operations.

-	Define site specific defaults.

-	Discover Annexes in the network.

-	Save Annex address lists after discovery and add names to 
	the lists manually.

-	Display default values for each configuration parameter on 
	demand.

-	Display on-line documentation for all Annex configuration 
	parameters, all Annex Manager windows and all widgets on 
	the screens.

-	Boot and reset an Annex.

-	Broadcast messages to users on Annex ports.

-	Automatically reset ports or Annex subsystems after 
	changing configuration parameters.



Annex Manager supports:
----------------------

-	Multiple Annex hardware platforms, including the Annex3, 
	MicroAnnex XL, the Remote Annex RA2000 and RA4000 
	products, Cabletron CSMIM and MODMIM, 
	Synoptics 5390, etc.

-	 Supports Annex software release R10.1 and subsequent 
	releases.

System Requirements
-------------------
-------------------

Release 2.1 of Annex Manager runs on several popular Unix systems.  
The following sections list the hardware and software requirements 
for installing and running Annex Manager.  

For all systems, a minimum of 10MB of free disk space must be 
available prior to installation.  A minimum of 32 MB of RAM is 
recommended, although specific memory requirements will vary, 
depending on the type of workstation and the other tasks that may 
be concurrent with Annex Manager.  In all cases, a color monitor or 
X-terminal is recommended, although Annex Manager is usable with 
a monochrome X-terminal.

Sun Requirements
----------------

Annex Manager runs under both SunOS 4.1.3c and Solaris 2.4 on 
SPARC systems.  For SunOS versions earlier than 4.1.3c, the following 
patches are required:

-	Patch number 100444-48 OpenWindows 3.0: OpenWindows 
	V3.0 Server Patch 3000-86.

-	Patch number 100492-01_09 OpenWindows 3.0: jumbo patch 
	for olwm 3.0.



HP Requirements
---------------
Annex Manager runs under HP-UX 9.0.5 on HP 9000 Series 700 
Workstations.

IBM Requirements
----------------

Annex Manager runs on an IBM RS/6000 workstations under AIX 4.1.

SCO Requirements
----------------

Annex Manager runs under SCO/Unix Release 3.2 and the X 
windowing system.  You should have a 486 CPU with 16 mb RAM, 
20 mb of available disk space, and a CDROM drive or a 3.5" floppy 
drive to install the software.

Remote Display Requirements
---------------------------

If you use Annex Manager on an X-terminal, we recommend that you 
have more than 2mb of memory to avoid problems when you have 
several windows open at the same time.



New Features and Commands
-------------------------
-------------------------

Annex Manager Release 2.1 includes changes in the discovery 
process: 

-	A new feature automatically lists Annexes that are available 
	on your local network when you first start Annex Manager.

-	A new 'Discover Annexes/Network' command uses a specific 
	internet address and subnet mask to find available Annexes 
	on any network.

    The new discovery feature and command find Annexes 
    running Annex software Release 11.1 and subsequent releases.  
    To find Annexes running software releases prior to 11.1, use 
    the existing 'Discover Annexes/Search Device' command.

Automatic Discovery Process
---------------------------

When you start Annex Manager, a new discovery process finds all 
available Annexes on your local network and places them in the main 
window's Annex List box.  

    To disable this process, type '-nod' argument when you load 
    Annex Manager (e.g., type 'gui_am -nod').

Annex Manager displays a new window over the main window to 
inform you that the automatic discovery process is taking place.

This message window indicates that you have 
not entered a specific Internet Address or Subnet Mask.  In addition, it 
includes the default broadcast address for your local network, and a 
default timeout value.

    You can use the  -dn (Discover Network), -ds (Discover Subnet 
    mask) and -dt (Discover Timeout) command arguments when 
    you load Annex Manager to override default settings.  For 
    example, you can type gui_am -dn 132.245.88.0 -ds 255.255.255.0 
    -dt 5 to discover Annexes for the 132.245.88.0 internet address 
    and 255.255.255.0 subnet mask with a response time of 5 
    seconds.  You cannot use -dn and -ds separately.  Annex 
    Manager does not require that you enter a new timeout value.

When Annex Manager completes the discovery process, a window 
informs you about the number of Annexes that will be loaded in the 
Annex List.

The main window's Annex List box includes all available Annexes 
on your local network.

You can use any Annex Manager command for which you have 
privileges to configure the Annexes on this list.  In addition, you can 
change the list using "Add" or "Remove" and save the list using the 
'Save Annex List' command.


Discover Annexes/Network Command
--------------------------------

The new 'Discover Annexes/Network' command finds available Annexes 
on a any network and adds them to the main window's Annex List 
box.

Displaying the Window

To display the 'Discover Annexes/Network' window, move the pointer to 
the Configure menu and choose 'Discover Annexes' and 'Network'.

Understanding the Window

'Discover Annexes/Network' uses three fields to find Annexes on a 
network:

-	'Internet Address' accepts an IP address for the network on 
	which Annex Manager will find available Annexes.

-	'Subnet Mask' defines the network portion of the IP address.

-	'Timeout' defines the length of time in seconds that Annex 
	Manager waits for a response.

This window includes three push buttons:

-	"OK" activates the discovery process.

-	"Cancel" removes this window from your display.

-	"Help" displays a separate window that explains the 
	'Discover Annexes/Network' command and its fields.

Using Discover Annexes/Network

To find available Annexes on a network:

1	Select 'Discover Annexes' from the Configure menu and then choose 
	'Network'.

	The command's window appears.

2	Enter an 'Internet Address' and a 'Subnet Mask' for the network you 
	want to search.

	You must complete both the 'Internet Address'  and the 'Subnet 
	Mask' fields.

3	Enter a number of seconds in the 'Timeout' field.

	This field automatically displays 10 seconds.  It uses a 10 
	second default if you leave the field blank.

4	Press "OK".

	Annex Manager displays the window informing you that the 
	discovery process is taking place.

	This window lists the 'Internet Address', 'Subnet Mask' and 
	'Timeout' value you entered, as well as the broadcast address.

	When Annex Manager completes this process it displays a 
	window informing you about the number of Annexes  that 
	have been found.

	Annex Manager adds the Annexes it finds to the main 
	window's Annex List box.  If this process found Annexes 
	that exist in the main window's list, a warning window lists 
	duplicate Annexes and does not add them to the list.  You 
	can use the 'Save Annex List' command to retain this list.


Modified Commands
-----------------
-----------------

This section describes changes in existing commands.  Release 2.1 
provides a new menu name for the 'Discover Annexes' command and 
adds categories in the 'Annex Async Port Status' command.

Discover Annexes Command
------------------------

In Annex Manager Release 2.1, the 'Discover Annexes' command has a 
new menu name.  To use this command you must choose 'Discover 
Annexes' and 'Search Device' from the Configure menu.  The original 
command and its windows have not changed.

    'Discover Annexes/Search Device' finds Annexes running all 
    Annex software releases.  The new discovery feature and 
    command find Annexes running Annex software Release 11.1 
    and subsequent releases only.

Reset Command
-------------

The 'Reset' command now includes the 'Individual Internal Modems' option 
in its 'Reset' Options box.

When you select the 'Individual Internal Modems' option, the field below 
the 'Reset Options' box automatically displays 'Internal Modems'.  You must 
enter the modem numbers you want to reset here.  If you enter more 
than one number, separate numbers with commas or indicate a range 
of numbers using dashes.  

Annex Async Port Status Command
-------------------------------

The 'Annex Async Port Status' command has three new categories in its 
'Port Information' box.

The Annex Async Port Status window includes the following new categories:

-	'Current User' identifies the user logged in to the ports you 
	selected.

-	'Login Time' displays the day and time that the port was 
	opened according to the Annex clock. 

-	'Port Proto' defines the protocol that is active on a port.  This 
	field can display the following codes. 

	-	'Cli' indicates that this is a CLI  port opened by a device 
		connected to the port or by a connection from a host 
		as a virtual CLI.

	-	'psv'r indicates that this is a slave port.

	-	'vcli' indicates that this is a virtual port.

	-	'dp' defines a dedicated port.

	-	'lpd' indicates that the port is using the Annex line printer 
		daemon.

	-	'ppp' indicates that the PPP protocol is active.

	-	'slip' indicates that the SLIP protocol is active.

	-	'arap' indicates that the ARAP protocol is active.

	-	'ftp' indicates that the port is an FTP interface.

	-	'ndp' indicates that the port is a Novell dedicated port.

	-	'ipx' indicates that the port is a dedicated IPX port used 
		only for dial-in access.

	-	'dyndial' defines a dynamic dial port.


New Parameters
--------------
--------------

This section lists new parameters for Release 2.1.

-	'multisession' allows terminals (i.e., VT420 and VT 330) 
	supporting DEC's Terminal Device/Session Management 
	Protocol (TD/SMP) to display two active windows 
	simultaneously. Entering 'enabled' here makes this feature 
	available to all ports on which the VCI command interface 
	is configured. 

		Type | Annex
		Values | enabled or disabled
		Default | disabled
		Lists | Annex Only, VCI_Interface

-	'multisession_port' allows you to select ports that will display 
	two active windows.  You can use this parameter only for 
	ports on which the VCI command interface is configured.

		Type | Async
		Values | enabled or disabled
		Default | disabled
		Lists | VCI_Interface

    To use the multisession feature, you must:

    -	Have a valid LAT key.

    -	Enter enabled for the multisession parameter.

    -	Enter enabled for the multisession_port parameter.  

    -	Reset an Annex if you change values for the 
	multisession parameters.


Working with SunNet Manager
---------------------------
---------------------------

Although Annex Manager is a standalone application, it can be 
loosely linked to SunNet Manager so that a network administrator 
can click on an icon representing an Annex in the network map and 
select Annex Manager from a list of tools for that node.  

    The steps described here  are specific to SunNet Manager 
    Release 2.2 and may vary if you are using a different version 
    of SunNet Manager.

Linking Annex Manager with SunNet Manager
-----------------------------------------

You can link Annex Manager and SunNet Manager from the Console 
commands/tools option menu or from Annex icons.  In both cases, 
you must link Annex Manager in the '/usr/snm/struct' directory's 
'xylogics.schema' file.

Adding Annex Manager to the Console Commands/Tools Option 
Menu

To add Annex Manager to the Console Commands/Tools option 
menu: 

1	Add the following information in the 'xylogics.schema' file's 
	'instance elementCommand' section.

	instance elementCommand   (
	(SNM_Console "Annex-Manager..." "$GUI_AM_DIR/bin/gui_am")
	)

Please refer to Chapter 8 in the "SunNet Manager User's Guide" for 
information about adding Annex Manager to the Tools option menu 
while SunNet Manager is running.
 

Adding Annex Manager to the Annex Icons

To add Annex Manager to the Annex Icons:

1	Add the following information in the 'xylogics.schema' file's 
	'instance elementCommand' section.

	instance elementCommand (
        	(component.annexII     "Annex-Manager..."      

	"$GUI_AM_DIR/bin/gui_am")
		 (component.microannex  "Annex-Manager..."      

	"$GUI_AM_DIR/bin/gui_am")
		 (component.annex3      "Annex-Manager..."      

	"$GUI_AM_DIR/bin/gui_am")
	) 

2	Place mouse cursor on the Annex icon and click the MENU button to 
	display the popup menu.  

3	On the popup menu, select Annex Manager under the Tools option.

Please refer to the "SunNet Manager User's Guide" for more information. 


Using SunNet Manager Discovery to Find Annexes
----------------------------------------------

The Discovery tool uses the object identifier (OID) or system 
description retrieved from a device through SNMP to specify which 
type of element it will create.   You must add components of each 
Annex model to the '/var/adm/snm' directory's 'discover.conf' file for 
Discovery to create Annex elements.  For more information, please 
refer to Chapter 5 in the "SunNet Manager Reference Manual".

Currently, all Annex models return the same OID for the 'sysOid' object.  
SunNet Manager Discovery cannot distinguish among Annex 
hardware models.  

To use the Discovery tool:

1	 add the following lines to the #MAPPINGS section:

	Annex3			component.annex3

	Micro Annex		component.microannex

	Annex-II		component.annexII



Troubleshooting
---------------
---------------

This section lists provides answers to questions frequently asked by   
in Annex Manager users.

SNMP Communication

In order for Annex Manager to communicate with an Annex, the 
Annex's SNMP agent must be up and the specified community string 
must match one of the Annex's community strings.  To perform 
operations which will change parameters (e.g., the 'Set' command), the 
'allow_snmp_sets' parameter on the Annex must be set to 'Y (Yes)'.  
You can set this parameter only by using the non-SNMP 'na' and 'admin' 
tools.

OpenLook/OpenWindow Issues

When you run Annex Manager in an OpenLook/OpenWindows 
environment, make sure that the latest xnews server patch is installed.  
If the application appears to hang after simple actions like a menu 
selection, it is likely that the xnews server and OpenLook window 
manager are causing the problem.

OpenLook Window Manager 'Close' Menu Item

Do not use the OpenLook Window Manager 'Close' menu option from 
the menu bar.  Use the Annex Manager  "Close" buttons instead.  If 
you use the OpenLook Window Manager menu option, Annex 
Manager will terminate unexpectedly.  This termination is not always 
immediate.

Ethernet Interface Numbering

Annex Manager numbers the ethernet interfaces starting with 1.  The 
na and admin tools number the ethernet interfaces starting with 0 
(zero).

BadWindow Error on Startup

Some X window terminals (possibly depending on the type of Xserver 
or on other applications which have been run recently), will display 
a 'BadWindow' error when you start Annex Manager.  Currently, the 
only known way to clear this problem is to reset the X window server.  
Annex Manager will then come up correctly.  

Initialization Window

Some window managers require that a window be placed once it 
appears as an outline.  If you use such a window manager, and the 
Annex Manager main window is not placed within a few seconds, 
the initialization window may appear as a small sliver.  You can 
expand this window.  It will disappear automatically when Annex 
Manager completes its start up.

Cut & Paste 

Some operating systems seem to have a problem cutting and pasting 
text from one portion of a window to another.  This issue does not 
seem to be exclusive to Annex Manager.  

Help on File Selection Windows

When you use [F1] or "Help" to display help on a file selection 
window, the you cannot acknowledge the help window until you 
complete the file selection window action.

Set Command Issues

You may experience  intermittent problems with setting a large 
number of parameters on multiple Annexes.  Using the "SNMP 
Information" command to increase the timeout value may reduce the 
frequency of the problem.

Modifying or Deleting Parameter Groups

Any user with write access to Annex Manager data files (i.e., who has 
the ability to create, modify, or delete parameter groups) can modify 
any parameter group even if the user did not create the file.

Resetting Modems

If you encounter problems resetting modems using the 'Reset' 
commands or the Modem windows in the Setup mode, increasing the 
SNMP timeout values may alleviate this problem.

Boot Status

Annex Manager does not automatically update the current status of 
each Annex (e.g., NOT REACHABLE) when you attempt a boot operation. 
You must select 'Verify Annex State' from the Status menu to determine 
the current status.

MOP Issues

If the Annex has booted from a MOP host, the Annex Information 
window shows the boot host address as 0.0.0.0.

Annex Agent Problems

There are some problems with various Annex software releases that 
may affect Annex Manager operation.  Not all of these problems exist 
for every Annex release.  You may encounter the following problems 
in any Annex software releases:

-	Some Annexes may not respond to an initial Annex Manager 
	SNMP request (apparently after a certain amount of time has 
	passed since a previous SNMP request).  This will cause the 
	Annex to be added to the Annex list as NOT REACHABLE.  To 
	re-establish contact, select the Annex and select 'Verify Annex 
	State' from the Status menu.

-	Some Annexes may display a zero value in the Annex Info 
	window for the hardware type.  Annex Manager displays 
	this condition with Unknown HW Type.

-	The Annex Info window may display an erroneous hardware 
	revision.

-	Only Annex hardware with internal modems supports the 
	'max_modem_calls' and 'port_modem_config' parameters.

-	The boot message may not appear when you choose a Boot 
	Option other than 'Delayed'.

-	The shutdown boot message header may refer to na when 
	users are notified about the shutdown.

-	Sending broadcast messages to port 1 does not always work.

-	You may not be able to  reset individual ports using the 'Reset' 
	command or the 'Confirm Auto Reset' menu option.

-	On some Annexes, you may not be able to set attn_string 
	to " " once it has been changed from its original " " value.

-	In addition to the parameters listed in the "Annex Manager 
	User Guide", you may not be able to include the following 
	parameters in a script, or use the Copy command: 
	ipx_dump_password, mop_login_password, rip_routers, node_id, 
	at_nodeid, session_limit_port, input_flow_control, 
	output_flow_control.  

	'Set' may not work properly if you include these parameters 
	among others.  If you select any of these parameters, and 
	then select other parameters, Annex Manager will not 
	change values for any parameters that follow a parameter 
	listed above.  For example, if you select 'ipx_dump_password' 
	and then select 'ipx_file_server', Set will not change the value 
	for 'ipx_file_server'.  For port parameters, only the first port 
	number will be changed.
Help
Close
