Remote Annex Release Notes for Release 11.1
-------------------------------------------

These release notes apply to the Remote Annex operational code, 
R11.1, the Annex Host Tools R11.1, and the Annex Manager V2.1. The 
Annex Quick Install and/or the Annex Software Installation Notes 
describe the installation process. 

Included in these Release Notes is: 

-	New Features

-	Special Considerations 

-	Supported Platforms 

-	Compatibility 

-	Known Problems/ Limitations 

-	Problems corrected since R10.1A 

We recommend you take the time to familiarize yourself with the 
contents of this document. The time spent may be very beneficial in 
ensuring a smooth transition to this new release.

New Features
------------
------------

User Profile-based Security; Expanded Security Capabilities 
-----------------------------------------------------------

Existing host-based security policies may now be applied based on 
the user profile, which is any combination of: 

-	username (supplied by the user as part of the authentication 
	sequence) 

-	group(s) in which the user is a member (as given in 
	/etc/group or a similar file) 

-	day of week 

-	time of day 

-	Annex 

-	port 

-	protocol (cli, ppp, slip)

The security capabilities of the system which can be specified now 
consist of: 

-	authentication regime (native UNIX, Annex's ACP regime, 
	SecurID, SafeWord, Kerberos, or none) 

-	file to be used by the specified authentication regime (for 
	Annex's ACP and Kerberos) 

-	deny access 

-	access to specific hosts via CLI telnet, CLI rlogin, or IP can 
	be granted or denied 

-	host access can be specified down to the port level 

-	forced/automatic command execution 

-	masking of particular commands 

-	filters (for IP and AppleTalk) 

-	routes (for IP) 

-	dialback/chargeback 

-	Appletalk connect time, password, and zone 

-	CHAP password 



Used in combination, these new features provide the network and 
security administrator added flexibility in setting up a Remote Access 
service. For example, certain ports may be made available to only 
certain groups of users. Some users may be required to use a powerful 
authentication mechanism such as SecureID, and granted access to 
particular hosts, while other users continue to use the standard UNIX 
/etc/passwd, but are restricted in their access. Access may be denied 
on particular days of the week at a particular time of day. IP filters 
may be applied to particular users (groups of users, Annexes, etc.); 
they may be specified explicitly or the appropriate filter will be 
generated and downloaded to the Annex for the duration of the 
connection if host access criteria is specified. 

All these capabilities are available without changing any source code 
or recompiling the distributed binary files. Host restrictions are 
specified in the acp_restrict file. The security regime is specified in a 
new acp_regime file that is created at installation when you upgrade 
a release. Group memberships are taken from the /etc/group system 
file or an equivalent acp_group file. All other security enhancements 
are specified in the acp_userinfo file.

Improved Communications with the Security Host 
----------------------------------------------

The communication between the Annex and the security host (erpcd) 
has been improved so it is more robust in the face of poor connections 
and quicker to respond to server failure. Audit logging messages are 
retained in the Annex until confirmation has been received that the 
server has recorded the data. In the case of a security server failure, 
the Annex will detect the failure more rapidly, and fail over to the 
backup server if it is available. After fail-over, the messages which 
have not yet been written are communicated to the backup server, 
ensuring no data loss. 

The protocol used for the communication is TCP-based.

lpr Support 
-----------

The Annex may now accept connections from PCs and UNIX hosts 
which support the standard lpr/lpd printing protocol - a standard 
system utility for printing which is normally distributed with systems 
which support TCP/IP. This removes the need to use a proprietary 
mechanism such as aprint or rtelnet for printing via the Annex.

Annex Interface for VMS Environments Support for 
the multisession Feature
------------------------------------------------

The multisession feature, which is used by VT330 and VT420 
terminals, is now available to users who have purchased the LAT 
software key. This allows the terminal to have multiple simultaneous 
connections over one communication line to the Annex. This allows 
the user to take advantage of the split-screen feature provided on 
those terminals.

Annex Manager Discover 
----------------------

A new discovery mechanism has been added to Annex Manager V2.1 
which automatically locates the Annexes on the LAN (see the Annex 
Manager Release Notes, which are under separate cover).


Special Considerations
----------------------
----------------------

Default Flow Control Change 
---------------------------

The default input flow control value is now start/stop. If you have 
installed Annexes which are using the default value from previous 
releases (bell) and you want to continue to use this value, you should 
explicitly set the value for the applicable ports. Annexes which are 
using a value other than the default will be unaffected.


Using the New Security Features 
-------------------------------

When using the new security features such as groups, it is important 
to carefully specify and test the security profile specifications. The 
Annex attempts to ensure that correct syntax is used, and takes a 
conservative approach of denying user access if any problem is 
detected. However, some of the system information, such as the group 
membership, is the responsibility of the administrator. Given the 
critical nature of this information, it is important for the administrator 
to ensure the desired result is obtained.

Changes to the acp_policy.c File
--------------------------------

The new features introduced with R11.1 of the Annex software have 
resulted in substantial changes to the code for ERPCD, including the 
acp_policy.c file. Due to the nature and scope of these changes, it is 
suggested that customers who have modified the acp_policy.c file for 
their own authentication regimes review the new file thoroughly 
before integrating their changes, as it is unlikely that a simple diff 
between R10.1 and R11.1 versions of the files will result in any useful 
information. While the API between R10.1 and R11.1 remains 
essentially unchanged with respect to the catalog of functions and 
system callbacks available to programmers who have modified 
acp_policy.c in the past, the arguments supplied to some functions 
have changed, and most functions now much include a to parameter 
to direct replies to the Annex from erpcd. For a complete description 
of the new function prototypes, see the file src/erpcd/policy.doc.



New ERPCD Process Handling 
--------------------------

Due to changes in R11.1, it is normal for more than one ERPCD process 
to exist at steady-state.  In previous releases, only one ERPCD process 
existed at steady state. 

If you use the kill command to kill an ERPCD process, all of the other 
ERPCD processes will be killed as well.  However, this may fail on 
some platforms, resulting in only the specified ERPCD process being 
killed.  If this occurs, you should specify all of the ERPCD processes 
as arguments to the kill command. 

 When you want ERPCD to re-read the acp_userinfo database, send 
a SIGUSR1 signal to all ERPCD processes using the kill command:  

kill -USR1 <pid1> <pid2> ... <pidn> 

where pid 1-n are the process IDs of all ERPCD processes.  In fact, any 
time you want to send a signal to ERPCD, it is safer to send that signal 
to all ERPCD processes listed in the process table.

ACP Server Fail-over Issues
---------------------------

 If the primary server fails, and then comes back up at a later time, 
the Remote Annex may take as much as five minutes to automatically 
detect that the primary server is back on-line. Therefore, it is 
suggested that the administrator reset security on all Remote Annexes 
after the primary server is brought back on line. Resetting security 
will immediately switch the Remote Annex back to the primary server 
if it is available.



Supported Platforms
-------------------
-------------------

The distribution media contains binary files for most of the supported 
platforms. When the script detects that there are binary files for the 
host operating system, it gives you the option of installing the binary 
files or loading the source code and compiling the software at a later 
time. If there are no binary files available, the script loads the source 
code and uses an available compiler on the host system to build the 
image. If the script does not identify a compiler on your system, it 
ends the installation session. 

Table 1 lists the operating system versions supported by Annex and 
whether binary files are provided on the distribution media.

Table 1. Annex Supported Platforms 

Operating System Version	| Files Available 
---------------------------------------------------------------

Sun Microsystems SunOS, 4.1.3	| Binary Files and Source Code 

Solaris,2.4			| Binary Files and Source Code 

Hewlett-Packard HP-UX 9.0	| Binary Files and Source Code 

IBM RS/6000 AIX, 4.1.3		| Binary Files and Source Code 

SCO, 3.2			| Binary Files and Source Code 

BSDI, 2.0.1			| Binary Files and Source Code 

Digital Equipment Corp., 	| Binary Files and Source Code 
Alpha OSF, 3.2

UNIXWARE, 2.0			| Binary Files and Source Code 

Free BSD, 2.0.5			| Source Code Only 

SGI IRIX, 5.3			| Source Code Only 

Ultrix, 4.3			| Source Code Only



Compatibility
--------------
--------------

The Annex server (host) software and the Annex Manager version 
which are included in this release are compatible with Remote Annex 
Release 10.1 and with the Communications Server Release 10.0. The 
software release number for the Annex is displayed in the first line of 
the CLI stats command output. The Annex Manager version is 
displayed in the About Annex Manager section of the Help menu.

R11.1 may use R10 configuration files without modification. Since the 
host access restrictions (acp_restrict file) now applies to IP packets, 
the user will be asked at installation time if the file should be modified 
to retain the Release 10 behavior, that is, if the host access should 
continue to apply only to CLI telnet and rlogin connections.

After installing R11.1 on the host, all units which use that host for 
services will be using the R11.1 host services, regardless of the release 
installed on the Annex. 

When running in a mixed-release environment, the R10 Annexes will 
have restrictions: 

-	Some of the features added with R11.1 as part of the security 
	profile on the host are not available to the R10 Annexes. 
	When these features are used with an R10 Annex, the user 
	connection will be broken since the lack of these features 
	would be considered a security breach:   

	-	forced/automatic command execution   

	-	routes

	-	filters - either explicit specification, or as part of the host 
		access specification 

-	R11.1 Annex Manager Discovery mechanism will not 
	discover the R10 Annexes 

-	Improved host communications added to R11.1 will not be 
	in effect 

-	IPX dialback/ callback does not work 


Known Problems/Limitations
--------------------------
--------------------------
-	Group functionality is not supported on BSDI, FreeBSD or Ultrix
	systems.

-	ARAP does not log the login name of a user.

-	A port on an Annex Interface for VMS Environments (VMS 
	port) running multisessions should be disabled before it is 
	remotely reset from another port.

-	The rlogin command should not be used while a VMS port 
	is in multisessions.

-	 The AIX platform requires ERPCD to be killed and restarted 
	to update the acp_userinfo database. The documented 
	method of using SIGUSER1 will not work on this platform.

-	The BSDI platform requires the administrator to manually 
	start ERPCD after the installation script is completed.

-	The Remote Annex Administrator's Guide for UNIX for this 
	release describes a -s argument for the CLI host command. 
	This argument is not yet implemented. 

-	Prior to configuring any ports on an Annex Interface for 
	VMS environments for use with the multisessions feature, 
	the server must be enabled for multisessions using the define 
	server multisessions enabled command and the server must 
	be rebooted. If the VT330/VT420 terminal does not enter 
	multisession mode even though the multisession 
	characteristic has been enabled for the port, use the show 
	server command to check that the server has the multisession 
	characteristic enabled. 

-	The instructions for loading the install script from CD-ROM on HP-UX

	1	Log on as root to a host system with a CD-ROM 
		drive. If the installation host does not have a CD-ROM 
		drive, log in to an NFS accessible host. 
	
	2	If necessary, create a mount point for the CD-ROM.
	
			mkdir /cdrom 
	
	3	Place the distribution CD on the CD-ROM drive. 
	
	4	Mount the CD-ROM. 
	
			mount -r -t cdfs /dev/dsk/c201d2s0 /cdrom 
	
	5	Switch to the installation directory.   
	
			cd /usr/annex 
	
	6	Extract the setup directory from the distribution media.
	
			tar -xf '/cdrom/SOFTWARE.TAR:1' setup
	
		The quoting is important in the above tar   
		command line.
	
	7	Call the install script from the setup directory.   
	
			setup/install 
	
	8	When you continue the software installation, the script prompts 
		you to indicate the source of the tar file.    
	
			What type of install will be performed?      
	
			1.Floppy Disks
			2.Tape 
			3.Tarfile previously copied to hard disk 
			4.Reinstall from previously extracted software 
				on hard drive 
			5.Quit 
		
			Enter the install source type [1]: 3 
	
	
	
	9	Enter the complete path of the tar file to the next prompt. 
	
			What is the fully specified path and name of the
			tar file      
				Name: /cdrom/SOFTWARE.TAR;1 
	
	10	Complete the installation as documented. 


Problems Corrected Since R10.1A 
-------------------------------
-------------------------------

spr.5353 	Sequence numbers in the acp_logfile are not skipped 
		when slip_ppp_security is set and cli_security is not set. 

spr.5459 	Annex not crash on an auto-detect port and a PPP client 
		with ppp_security_proto = N and ppp_slip_sec = Y.

spr.5450 	Modem line noise won't effect macros and drop users to 
		the CLI command. 

spr.5428 	Annex will fail in less than 6 minutes in attempting to find 
		a security host by broadcasting. 

spr.5429 	Annex will not crash trying to reset an active PPP      
		interface. 

spr.5447 	A memory leak with caller accounting has been fixed. 

spr.5655 	An illegal configuration option in PPP will not cause the 
		Annex to crash. 

spr.5455 	Annex will not crash on a quick disconnect from ppp. 

spr.5180 	Timing problem with Windows 95 PPP Client,      
		auto_detect mode and pap has been fixed. 

spr.5413 	LAT connects to a vcli session will now hang up      
		correctly.		 

spr.4226 	PAP security will drop to the local security if the 
		pref_secure1 server is set to zeros, and there is no 
		secondary or broadcast security host. 

spr.5410 	HIC services now show up in queue -v and not in      
		services. 

spr.5380 	Annex will delete proxy-arp interfaces when they go 
		down and not expire them. 

spr.5362 	Modem configuration code will not insert characters into 
		the data stream at an inopportune time during start-up of 
		a line, previously causing the Annex to dump. 

spr.5449 	Modified SLC driver so that the hardware drops RTS      
		drops less frequently at 115.2Kbps. (The SLC hardware 
		drops RTS automatically when its FIFO gets full; the 
		interrupt trigger point was moved back at 115.2Kbps so 
		this event should be rarer.) 

spr.5423 	Line-kill timer now waits for 45 seconds of interrupt time 
		before killing lines. 

spr.5424 	Line would sometimes be killed multiple times when      
		CPU load very high for a long period of time. We now 
		check the shutdown flag first, so this count should be 
		accurate.

spr.5098 	Non-queued access requests to busy Annex ports from 
		obsolete LAT 5.1 hosts will no longer hang for three 
		minutes, but will be rejected immediately. 

spr.5440 	The Annex will properly handle the situation when two 
		ARA lines are coming in at the same time and ARA tries 
		to assign them both the same address. Since only one line 
		can succeed, the other one will back out and remove the 
		incomplete ifnet from the queue.
