
			Annex Manager R2.3 Release Notes 

Annex Manager is an SNMP-based management application that uses the
X/Motif graphical environment. Annex Manager is specifically designed
to manage Bay Networks Annex Remote Access Servers, and is not intended
as a general purpose network manager. While Annex Manager can detect 
SNMP devices that are not Annexes, you cannot use it to configure any 
non-Annex network device.Annex Manager R2.3 runs on a workstation 
platform running BSD Unix (Sun Sparc, HP, RS/6000, SCO). The user 
interface is built to the X/Motif standard. Annex Manager is designed
to run stand-alone. It contains all necessary SNMP protocol routines 
and X/Motif binary libraries. The installation process copies the
appropriate binary executable and all associated help and data files
from the distribution media onto the workstation's disk store.
Annex Manager can be loosely coupled with several standard network
management products such as SunNet Manager, HP/Openview, or Netview 
for AIX. Annex Manager does not use the API interfaces provided by 
those products. 

Why Use Annex Manager?

Annex Manager allows a system administrator to monitor and configure
Annexes in a network. Annex Manager is a host based, window oriented,
configuration and management application. The displays and user 
interface conform to the X/Motif standard. Annex Manager works best 
with a color monitor directly attached to a workstation or a color
X-windows terminal connected to a Unix host over the network. In 
addition, it supports a grey-scale X-window terminal attached to a 
workstation. Annex Manager's configuration tool is easy to learn and 
use. It supports the functionality of the older host-based na
configuration tool in an easier to use format. Annex Manager is 
specifically designed to configure and manage Annex products. 
Its features depend on the proprietary MIB defined for the Annex and 
on the various standard MIBs supported by the Annex. As such, Annex 
Manager cannot manage other SNMP-manageable nodes in the network. 
Annex Manager is not intended to be a generic SNMP management tool.
Annex Manager provides features that have not been available with the
na utility. Users can:

       	Configure Annexes with Setup or Customize mode: 
        Setup mode allows users to configure one or more Annexes by 
        setting the most commonly used parameters.
        Customize mode lets users set individual Annex parameters and
        provides access to all main menu commands. 
	Save current configuration parameter settings in Script files
        and restore the parameters from those files.
	Edit script files with a common editor on the workstation.
	Compare the configuration parameters of two ports on the same
        Annex or on different Annexes.
	Copy the current configuration parameter settings from one port
        to another or one Annex to another.
	Retrieve basic status and statistics information from the Annex
	Define parameter groups to simplify configuration operations.
	Define site specific defaults.
	Discover Annexes in the network.
	Save Annex address lists after discovery and add names to the
        lists manually.
	Display default values for each configuration parameter on 
        demand.
	Display on-line documentation for all Annex configuration
        parameters, all Annex Manager windows and all widgets on the
        screens.
	Boot and reset an Annex.
	Broadcast messages to users on Annex ports.
	Automatically reset ports or Annex subsystems after changing 
        configuration parameters.
	Use the editor specified in the user's environment to locate
        and edit an Annex configuration file.

Annex Manager R2.3 supports the following Remote Annex hardware running 
the specified Annex Software Release:

RA2000  R13.3
RA4000 R13.3
RA6100 R13.3
5390 R13.3
5391 R13.3
5393  R13.3
RA6300 R13.3
Annex 3 R10.0
Micro Annex R10.0
MicroCS R10.0
Cabletron CSMIMII R13.3
Cabletron CSMIMT1 R13.3
Cabletron MODMIM R13.3
3COM 6133C-XS R13.3
3COM 6117C-XS R13.3

System Requirements
Annex Manager Release 2.3 runs on several popular UNIX systems. The 
following sections list the hardware and software requirements for
installing and running Annex Manager.  
For all systems, a minimum of 10MB of free disk space must be available 
prior to installation. A minimum of 32 MB of RAM is recommended,
although specific memory requirements will vary, depending on the type
of workstation and the other tasks that may be concurrent with Annex 
Manager. In all cases, a color monitor or X-terminal is recommended,
although Annex Manager is usable with a monochrome X-terminal.

Sun Requirements
Annex Manager runs under Sun OS releases 4.1.3c and 4.1.4 and Solaris
releases 2.4 and 2.5.1 on SPARC systems. The following patches are 
required for SunOS versions earlier than 4.1.3c:

	Patch number 100444-48 OpenWindows 3.0: OpenWindows V3.0 
        Server Patch 3000-86.
	Patch number 100492-01_09 OpenWindows 3.0: jumbo patch for
        olwm 3.0.

HP Requirements
Annex Manager runs under HP-UX 9.0.5 and 10.10 on HP 9000 Series 700
Workstations.

IBM Requirements
Annex Manager runs on an IBM RS/6000 workstations under AIX 4.1.4.

SCO Requirements
Annex Manager runs under SCO/Unix releases 3.2 and 5.0 and the X 
windowing system. You should have a 486 CPU with 16 mb RAM, 20 mb of
available disk space, and a CDROM drive or a 3.5" floppy drive to
install the software.

Remote Display Requirements
If you use Annex Manager on an X-terminal, we recommend that you have
more than 2mb of memory to avoid problems when you have several windows
open at the same time.

New Features and Commands
Annex Manager Release 2.3 now lets you manage Multilink PPP, CCP 
compression, internal CSU parameters for the RA6300 and Bay
Networks 5393, DVS/UDAS parameters and DHCP configuration parameters.
For more information on these features, please see the R13.3 Release 
Notes and the updated Annex Manager User Guide.

Known Problems/Limitations
Selecting the Configuration->Edit Configuration menu option  will cause
the Annex Manager to crash if the selected Annex is booted from a host 
that is different than its default host.  This will only happen if
Annex Manager is installed on a Solaris 2.5.1 or a HP-UX10.10 platform.
The work around for this problem is to boot the Annex from its default 
host.

